11.4 The Mark Ring                                                                                                                                            
==================                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                              
Each buffer remembers previous locations of the mark, in the “mark                                                                                            
ring”.  Commands that set the mark also push the old mark onto this                                                                                           
ring.  One of the uses of the mark ring is to remember spots that you                                                                                         
may want to go back to.                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                              
‘C-<SPC> C-<SPC>’                                                                                                                                             
     Set the mark, pushing it onto the mark ring, without activating it.                                                                                      
‘C-u C-<SPC>’                                                                                                                                                 
     Move point to where the mark was, and restore the mark from the                                                                                          
     ring of former marks.                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                              
   The command ‘C-<SPC> C-<SPC>’ is handy when you want to use the mark                                                                                       
to remember a position to which you may wish to return.  It pushes the                                                                                        
current point onto the mark ring, without activating the mark (which                                                                                          
would cause Emacs to highlight the region).  This is actually two                                                                                             
consecutive invocations of ‘C-<SPC>’ (‘set-mark-command’); the first                                                                                          
‘C-<SPC>’ sets the mark, and the second ‘C-<SPC>’ deactivates it.  (When                                                                                      
Transient Mark mode is off, ‘C-<SPC> C-<SPC>’ instead activates                                                                                               
Transient Mark mode temporarily; see Disabled Transient Mark.)                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                              
   To return to a marked position, use ‘set-mark-command’ with a prefix                                                                                       
argument: ‘C-u C-<SPC>’.  This moves point to where the mark was, and                                                                                         
deactivates the mark if it was active.  Each subsequent ‘C-u C-<SPC>’                                                                                         
jumps to a prior position stored in the mark ring.  The positions you                                                                                         
move through in this way are not lost; they go to the end of the ring.                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                              
   If you set ‘set-mark-command-repeat-pop’ to non-‘nil’, then                                                                                                
immediately after you type ‘C-u C-<SPC>’, you can type ‘C-<SPC>’ instead                                                                                      
of ‘C-u C-<SPC>’ to cycle through the mark ring.  By default,                                                                                                 
‘set-mark-command-repeat-pop’ is ‘nil’.

   Each buffer has its own mark ring.  All editing commands use the                                                                                     
current buffer’s mark ring.  In particular, ‘C-u C-<SPC>’ always stays                                                                                  
in the same buffer.                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                        
   The variable ‘mark-ring-max’ specifies the maximum number of entries                                                                                 
to keep in the mark ring.  This defaults to 16 entries.  If that many                                                                                   
entries exist and another one is pushed, the earliest one in the list is                                                                                
discarded.  Repeating ‘C-u C-<SPC>’ cycles through the positions                                                                                        
currently in the ring.                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                        
   If you want to move back to the same place over and over, the mark                                                                                   
ring may not be convenient enough.  If so, you can record the position                                                                                  
in a register for later retrieval (see Saving Positions in Registers.).  
