11 The Mark and the Region                                              
**************************                                              
                                                                        
Many Emacs commands operate on an arbitrary contiguous part of the      
current buffer.  To specify the text for such a command to operate on,  
you set “the mark” at one end of it, and move point to the other end.   
The text between point and the mark is called “the region”.  The region 
always extends between point and the mark, no matter which one comes    
earlier in the text; each time you move point, the region changes.      
                                                                        
   Setting the mark at a position in the text also “activates” it.  When
the mark is active, we say also that the region is active; Emacs        
indicates its extent by highlighting the text within it, using the      
‘region’ face (*note Face Customization::).                               
                                                                        
   After certain non-motion commands, including any command that changes
the text in the buffer, Emacs automatically “deactivates” the mark; this
turns off the highlighting.  You can also explicitly deactivate the mark
at any time, by typing ‘C-g’ (*note Quitting::).

   The most common way to set the mark is with ‘C-<SPC>’
(‘set-mark-command’)(1).  This sets the mark where point is, and
activates it.  You can then move point away, leaving the mark behind.

   For example, suppose you wish to convert part of the buffer to upper
case.  To accomplish this, go to one end of the desired text, type
‘C-<SPC>’, and move point until the desired portion of text is
highlighted.  Now type ‘C-x C-u’ (‘upcase-region’).  This converts the
text in the region to upper case, and then deactivates the mark.

   Whenever the mark is active, you can deactivate it by typing ‘C-g’
(*note Quitting::).  Most commands that operate on the region also
automatically deactivate the mark, like ‘C-x C-u’ in the above example.

   Instead of setting the mark in order to operate on a region, you can
also use it to remember a position in the buffer (by typing ‘C-<SPC>
C-<SPC>’), and later jump back there (by typing ‘C-u C-<SPC>’).  *Note
Mark Ring::, for details.
