‘C-<SPC>’
     Set the mark at point, and activate it (‘set-mark-command’).
‘C-@’
     The same.
‘C-x C-x’
     Set the mark at point, and activate it; then move point where the
     mark used to be (‘exchange-point-and-mark’).

C-<SPC> C-<SPC: set mark and deactivate it
C-u C-<SPC>: jump to mark

The most common way to set the mark is with ‘C-<SPC>’
(‘set-mark-command’)(1).  This sets the mark where point is, and
activates it.  You can then move point away, leaving the mark behind.

   For example, suppose you wish to convert part of the buffer to upper
case.  To accomplish this, go to one end of the desired text, type
‘C-<SPC>’, and move point until the desired portion of text is
highlighted.  Now type ‘C-x C-u’ (‘upcase-region’).  This converts the
text in the region to upper case, and then deactivates the mark.

   Whenever the mark is active, you can deactivate it by typing ‘C-g’
(see Quitting).  Most commands that operate on the region also
automatically deactivate the mark, like ‘C-x C-u’ in the above example.

   Instead of setting the mark in order to operate on a region, you can
also use it to remember a position in the buffer (by typing ‘C-<SPC>                                                                                          
C-<SPC>’), and later jump back there (by typing ‘C-u C-<SPC>’).  See
Mark Ring, for details.

   The command ‘C-x C-x’ (‘exchange-point-and-mark’) exchanges the
positions of point and the mark.  ‘C-x C-x’ is useful when you are
satisfied with the position of point but want to move the other end of
the region (where the mark is).  Using ‘C-x C-x’ a second time, if
necessary, puts the mark at the new position with point back at its
original position.  Normally, if the mark is inactive, this command
first reactivates the mark wherever it was last set, to ensure that the
region is left highlighted.  However, if you call it with a prefix
argument, it leaves the mark inactive and the region unhighlighted; you
can use this to jump to the mark in a manner similar to ‘C-u C-<SPC>’.

