25.8 Text Mode
==============

Text mode is a major mode for editing files of text in a human language.
Files which have names ending in the extension ‘.txt’ are usually opened
in Text mode (*note Choosing Modes::).  To explicitly switch to Text
mode, type ‘M-x text-mode’.

   In Text mode, only blank lines and page delimiters separate
paragraphs.  As a result, paragraphs can be indented, and adaptive
filling determines what indentation to use when filling a paragraph.
*Note Adaptive Fill::.

   In Text mode, the <TAB> (‘indent-for-tab-command’) command usually
inserts whitespace up to the next tab stop, instead of indenting the
current line.  *Note Indentation::, for details.

   Text mode turns off the features concerned with comments except when
you explicitly invoke them.  It changes the syntax table so that
apostrophes are considered part of words (e.g., ‘don't’ is considered
one word).  However, if a word starts with an apostrophe, it is treated
as a prefix for the purposes of capitalization (e.g., ‘M-c’ converts
‘'hello'’ into ‘'Hello'’, as expected).

   If you indent the first lines of paragraphs, then you should use
Paragraph-Indent Text mode (‘M-x paragraph-indent-text-mode’) rather
than Text mode.  In that mode, you do not need to have blank lines
between paragraphs, because the first-line indentation is sufficient to
start a paragraph; however paragraphs in which every line is indented
are not supported.  Use ‘M-x paragraph-indent-minor-mode’ to enable an
equivalent minor mode for situations where you shouldn’t change the
major mode—in mail composition, for instance.

   Text mode binds ‘M-<TAB>’ to ‘ispell-complete-word’.  This command
performs completion of the partial word in the buffer before point,
using the spelling dictionary as the space of possible words.  *Note
Spelling::.  If your window manager defines ‘M-<TAB>’ to switch windows,
you can type ‘<ESC> <TAB>’ or ‘C-M-i’ instead.

   Entering Text mode runs the mode hook ‘text-mode-hook’ (*note Major
Modes::).

   The following sections describe several major modes that are
“derived” from Text mode.  These derivatives share most of the features
of Text mode described above.  In particular, derivatives of Text mode
run ‘text-mode-hook’ prior to running their own mode hooks.

